Draft version October 20, 2023
Typeset using L ATEX default style in AASTeX631
The Near-Earth Object Surveyor Mission
A. K. Mainzer,1Joseph R. Masiero,2Paul A. Abell,3J. M. Bauer,4William Bottke,5Bonnie J. Buratti,6
Sean J. Carey,7D. Cotto-Figueroa,8R. M. Cutri,9D. Dahlen,9Peter R. M. Eisenhardt,6Y. R. Fernandez,10
Roberto Furfaro,1Tommy Grav,1T. L. Hoffman,6Michael S. Kelley,11Yoonyoung Kim,1
J. Davy Kirkpatrick,9Christopher R. Lawler,12Eva Lilly,13X. Liu,9Federico Marocco,7K. A. Marsh,7
Frank J. Masci,7Craig W. McMurtry,14Milad Pourrahmani,7Lennon Reinhart,15Michael E. Ressler,16
Akash Satpathy,17C. A. Schambeau,18S. Sonnett,13Timothy B. Spahr,19Jason A. Surace,7Mar Vaquero,6
E. L. Wright,20Gregory R. Zengilowski,17
NEO Surveyor Mission Team
1University of Arizona, 1629 E University Blvd, Tucson, AZ 85721-0092, USA
2Caltech/IPAC, Pasadena, CA, USA
3NASA Johnson Space Center, 2101 NASA Parkway, Houston TX 77058
4Dept. of Astronomy, Univ. of Maryland, College Park, MD
5Southwest Research Institute, Boulder, CO, USA
6Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA, USA
7IPAC, California Institute of Technology, 1200 E. California Blvd, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA
8Department of Physics and Electronics, University of Puerto Rico at Humacao, Call Box 860, Humacao, PR 00792, USA
9IPAC, Mail Code 100-22, California Institute of Technology, 1200 E. California Blvd., Pasadena, CA 91125, USA
10University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL, USA
11Planetary Defense Coordination Office, NASA Headquarters, 300 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20546
12Jet Propulsion Laboratory/California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA, USA
13Planetary Science Institute, Tucson AZ, USA
14Physics and Astronomy Dept., University of Rochester, New York 14627-0171 USA
15Space Dynamics Laboratory, University of Utah, Logan, UT, USA
16Jet Propulsion Laboratory/Caltech, Pasadena, CA, USA
17University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA
18Florida Space Institute, University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL, USA; Department of Physics, University of Central Florida,
Orlando, FL, USA
19NEO Sciences LLC, Marlborough, MA, USA
20University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA
(Accepted October 16, 2023)
ABSTRACT
The Near-Earth Object (NEO) Surveyor mission is a NASA observatory designed to discover and
characterize near-Earth asteroids and comets. The mission’s primary objective is to find the majority
of objects large enough to cause severe regional impact damage ( >140 m in effective spherical diameter)
within its five-year baseline survey. Operating at the Sun-Earth L1 Lagrange point, the mission will
survey to within 45 degrees of the Sun in an effort to find the objects in the most Earth-like orbits.
The survey cadence is optimized to provide observational arcs long enough to reliably distinguish near-
Earth objects from more distant small bodies that cannot pose an impact hazard. Over the course of
its survey, NEO Surveyor will discover ∼200,000 - 300,000 new NEOs down to sizes as small as ∼10
m and thousands of comets, significantly improving our understanding of the probability of an Earth
impact over the next century.
1.INTRODUCTION
Asteroid and comets have impacted the Earth for billions of years and will continue to do so. The present-day
impact flux is dominated by a supply of asteroidal material that predominantly originates from the main belt between
Mars and Jupiter, typically migrating into near-Earth space via thermal drifts that push the objects into gravitationalarXiv:2310.12918v1  [astro-ph.EP]  19 Oct 20232
resonances capable of changing orbits on timescales of millions- to tens-of-millions of years (Bottke et al. 2002; Granvik
et al. 2018). Once objects evolve into orbits with perihelia less than 1.3 au, they are classified as NEOs.1Comets, both
long- and short-period, constitute a smaller fraction of NEOs, estimated to be between 5-15% of the total (Wetherill
1987, 1988; Bottke et al. 2002; Fern´ andez et al. 2005; DeMeo & Binzel 2008; Kim et al. 2014; Bauer et al. 2017; Granvik
et al. 2018). The size distribution is such that material that collides with Earth is dominated by tiny dust particles
that produce harmless “shooting stars”; roughly 100 tons of such material (thought to be primarily cometary in origin)
falls on Earth each day (Jenniskens 2015; Nesvorn´ y et al. 2010).2
Larger objects impact our planet infrequently. While such impacts are rare, they are capable of causing significant
damage locally (e.g. the fireball explosion over Chelyabinsk, Russia in 2013 and the 1908 Tunguska blast; Brown
et al. 2013; Jenniskens et al. 2009) or globally (e.g. the Chixulub impact 66 Myr ago; Alvarez et al. 1980; Renne
et al. 2013). The impact frequency as a function of impactor size is reasonably well-understood on astronomical or
geological timescales, based on studies of the cratering records of the Earth and Moon, as well as telescopic studies of
the NEO population. Earth impacts capable of causing global destruction are thought to occur every ∼100 million
years; impacts capable of causing severe regional destruction might occur every few thousand to tens of thousands of
years; and impactors capable of causing damage to a city occur perhaps 0.1 to several times each century (Shoemaker
et al. 1979; Shoemaker 1983; Rabinowitz et al. 2000; Stuart & Binzel 2004; Mainzer et al. 2011b; Trilling et al. 2017;
Granvik et al. 2018; Harris & Chodas 2021). Yet to predict what willoccur on human timescales (over the next
century or two) requires discovery of individual objects, with their orbits determined to sufficient precision to assess
whether or not an impact is likely over that timescale.
Much of what we know about the population of NEOs derives from systematic surveys for them, beginning with
photographic plate surveys such as the Palomar Planet-Crossing Asteroid Survey (Helin & Shoemaker 1979). As
charged-coupled devices matured and were incorporated into asteroid searches, the pace of NEO discovery increased
due to the efforts of projects such as the Spacewatch survey (McMillan 2007), the Near-Earth Asteroid Tracking
Program (Helin et al. 1997; Pravdo et al. 1999), the Lowell Observatory Near-Earth Object Survey (Koehn & Bowell
2000), and the Lincoln Near-Earth Asteroid Research Program (Stokes et al. 2000). Current NASA-supported NEO
surveys include the Catalina Sky Survey (Larson 2007), PanSTARRS (Chambers et al. 2016), the Zwicky Transient
Facility (Masci et al. 2019), the Near-Earth Object Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (NEOWISE) survey (Cutri
et al. 2012; Mainzer et al. 2011c, 2014), and the Asteroid Terrestrial-impact Last Alert System (Tonry et al. 2018).
As a result of the community’s efforts, more than 90% of the population of 1 km and larger NEAs were believed to
have been discovered (Mainzer et al. 2011b; Granvik et al. 2018) by the 2010-2011 timeframe, fulfilling the “Spaceguard”
goal (Morrison 1992) of finding the majority of these large asteroids capable of causing global extinction events. The
Spaceguard objective did not cover comets.
Following the achievement of the Spaceguard goal, community consensus studies (Stokes et al. 2003, 2017; Melosh
et al. 2019) determined that asteroids larger than 140 m in diameter should be the target of the next generation
of surveys because they are capable of causing severe regional destruction with economic effects that would be felt
globally; a 140 m impactor has the equivalent energy of roughly 200 megatons of TNT. In 2005, the United States
Congress passed the George E. Brown, Jr. Near-Earth Object Survey Act requiring that NASA detect more than 90%
of all NEOs larger than 140 m in diameter by the year 2020.3Completing the survey of 140 m and larger NEOs is a key
component of the United States’ National Near-Earth Object Preparedness Strategy and Action Plan (OSTP 2018,
2023). At present, perhaps 40% of all such objects have been discovered with the current suite of surveys (Mainzer
et al. 2011b; Granvik et al. 2018). Discoveries are currently dominated by the Catalina Sky Survey and PanSTARRS
survey, which employ 1-2 m class telescopes operating at visible wavelengths and discover ∼2500-3000 new NEOs per
year. The average size of newly discovered NEOs is between 30-100 m; the current rate of discovery of larger objects
is limited to ∼450 new objects per year.4
Not all NEOs pose equal hazards to the Earth: in particular, those with orbits that approach within 0.05 au of
Earth’s orbit have sufficient uncertainty in their ephemerides over the next 80-100 years that impacts beyond that
timescale cannot be ruled out (Giorgini et al. 2002; Ostro & Giorgini 2004). Such objects are formally designated
potentially hazardous asteroids (PHAs) if they also have absolute magnitude H <22 mag (although others have argued
1https://cneos.jpl.nasa.gov/about/neo groups.html
2https://cneos.jpl.nasa.gov/about/target earth.html
3https://www.congress.gov/bill/109th-congress/house-bill/1022/text
4https://cneos.jpl.nasa.gov/stats/size.html3
for a size-based definition for objects large enough to create a crater, e.g. Mainzer et al. 2014). For our purposes in
this paper, we include any object with minimum orbit intersection distance (MOID) <0.05 au in the definition of
PHAs. NEOs are divided into different dynamical classes: Atiras are NEOs with orbits entirely interior to Earth’s,
with semi-major axes a <1.0 and aphelia Q <0.983 au. Atens are defined as NEOs with a <1 au and Q >0.983 AU;
Apollos have a >1 AU and perihelia distances q <1.017 AU. Amors spend all of their time outside the orbit of the
Earth, with a >1 au and 1.017 <q<1.3 au (Belton et al. 2004). Thus, both Atens and Apollos have orbits that cross
Earth’s, but Atens tend to have the most circular, Earth-like orbits. Amors generally have the least chance of making
close approaches to Earth. It is important to focus on finding PHAs since they have the greatest potential for close
Earth approaches.
The challenge of finding 90% of the diameter-limited population of NEAs larger than 140 m is exacerbated by
the presence of objects with low-albedo, carbonaceous material among the population. The survey of such objects
performed by the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE; Wright et al. 2010) during the fully cryogenic part of
its mission, which detected NEOs based on their 12 µm thermal emission and was therefore largely insensitive to
variations in albedo, found that the NEO albedo distribution remains relatively unchanged as a function of size over
the range of diameters probed by WISE ( ∼200-300m and larger; Mainzer et al. 2011b). Wright et al. (2016) showed
that in order to discover 90% of the 140 m and larger objects, surveys must reach an equivalent absolute magnitude
completeness of H <23 mag instead of the H <22 mag assumed using the approximation that all NEOs have visible
geometric albedos of ∼0.14. Thus, reaching the 90% completeness limit specified by the George E. Brown Act requires
discovering the dark portion of the NEO population as well as the brighter objects with silicate-dominated surfaces.
Finding PHAs well in advance of any potential close approaches is important because successfully deflecting an
impacting object likely requires years to decades of lead time. The Double Asteroid Redirection Test (DART) mission
has recently succeeded in altering the orbit of an asteroid using the kinetic impactor technique, following on the success
of the Deep Impact (A’Hearn et al. 2005) and Hayabusa2 (Watanabe et al. 2019) missions. However, such kinetic
deflections typically only work on sub-km-sized objects with ∼5-50 years of warning, and km-sized bodies would require
even more time to deflect them successfully; see Figure 5.5 in NASEM (2010). For example, the DART mission was
able to impart a total velocity change of 3 mm/sec on its target body, the 160 m diameter Dimorphos (a natural moon
of the 765 m NEO Didymos), using a ∼600 kg spacecraft (Cheng et al. 2016). Assuming a spacecraft of similar mass
as DART was sent to deflect an impactor, it would take decades to deflect a 160 m object by the 6400 km radius of
the Earth. This time could be cut down by impacting with a more massive spacecraft, or multiple spacecraft, but
the time required for a successful kinetic deflection is still likely to be in excess of 20 years. The mass of a larger
object scales with the cube of the diameter, which dramatically increases the required deflection time. Therefore, it is
essential to complete the survey of objects large enough to cause at least severe regional damage as quickly as possible.
Maximizing warning time minimizes the energy required to deflect an object and allows for the time needed to develop
and mature the needed mitigation mission(s) and precursors.
The project completed its Preliminary Design Review in September 2022. NEO Surveyor was confirmed to enter
Phase C in November 2022 and is scheduled for launch in September 2027 (Hoffman et al. 2022). NEO Surveyor was
recommended as the top priority for planetary defense in the 2022 Planetary Decadal Survey (NASEM 2022) and in
a previous consensus study paper (Melosh et al. 2019).
2.MISSION ARCHITECTURE
The NEO Surveyor mission is a space telescope dedicated to finding, cataloging, and characterizing the PHAs,
including the low albedo objects, as well as long- and short-period comets. It is designed to make significant, rapid
progress toward the objective specified by the George E. Brown law. The mission’s primary scientific requirement is to
find the majority of PHAs larger than 140 m within its five-year baseline mission. The observatory consists of a 50-cm
infrared telescope operating at two channels that are dominated by thermal infrared emission for typical NEOs (Figure
1), which typically have effective temperatures between 200-300 K throughout the majority of their orbits (Figure 2).
Channel NC1, spanning 4-5.2 µm, is designed to detect background stars for obtaining astrometric registration and
calibration as well as for improving constraints on an object’s effective temperature. Channel NC2 spans 6-10 µm in
an effort to maximize sensitivity to typical NEO thermal emission.
The mission’s driving Level 1 requirement is to find 2/3 of PHAs larger than 140 m within its 5-year baseline mission.
The mission has a goal of operating for 12 years, which would give the best chance of achieving 90% completeness
on such objects, thus fulfilling the George E. Brown law. NEO Surveyor is also required to constrain the impact4
Figure 1. The NEO Surveyor mission consists of a single infrared instrument operating at two infrared channels. The
instrument is shielded from the Sun by its sunshade, and the black-painted radiator surfaces on the back of the instrument
enable the mission to achieve its operating temperatures through passive cooling. The NEO Surveyor mission’s 6.15 m sunshade
enables it to look down to solar elongations of 45◦in order to more efficiently detect asteroids in the most circular, Earth-like
orbits. The instrument is shown on the right with its one-time deployable aperture cover still attached.
frequency of smaller NEOs and the total population of comets. In addition, the Observatory is required to provide the
capability to stop and collect additional follow up observations of targets of interest, should an object be discovered
with a particularly large chance of impact. The 3-axis stabilized spacecraft is capable of stopping and integrating on
any individual target of interest in the instrument operable zone. The mission’s concept of operations is designed to
maximize discovery of PHAs and comets. As described below, after operating for ∼10-12 years, the Observatory has
a reasonable chance of reaching 90% completeness for PHAs >140 m, representing ∼200,000-300,000 NEOs down to
small sizes.
By entering into a halo orbit around the Sun-Earth L1 Lagrange point (SEL1), the NEO Surveyor mission is able to
continuously view a large segment of the space around Earth’s orbit, particularly the near-Sun regions that are most
difficult to observe from the ground (Figure 3). The SEL1 halo orbit is preferred over the L2 Lagrange point because
the Moon does not impinge on the field of regard as significantly, and the spacecraft’s communications antenna does
not have to be mounted on the solar panel/sunshade, simplifying the design. Previous studies (Mainzer et al. 2015;
Grav et al. 2016) indicated that an SEL1 orbit yielded comparable performance to a circulating interior-to-Earth or
Venus-trailing orbits, even assuming that no efficiency losses were incurred from the several orders-of-magnitude drop
in data downlink rate that would be a consequence of such orbits.
At SEL1, the Earth and Moon are sufficiently distant that their thermal radiation onto the spacecraft can be managed
purely passively. Combined with the other thermal protections, this design allows the NEO Surveyor instrument
performance to be limited by the natural astrophysical background in the NC2 channel (predominantly zodiacal dust5
Figure 2. The spectral energy distribution for two different 140 m NEOs observed at 90◦phase angle with visible geometric
albedos of 0.03 and 0.17, with the NC1 and NC2 bandpasses overplotted as the cyan and magenta patches, respectively.
emission; Wright 1998; Leinert et al. 1998), with the telescope required to remain below 57 K. The NC2 detectors must
be maintained below 40 K (McMurtry et al. 2013; Dorn et al. 2016; Zengilowski et al. 2021, 2022) to ensure that their
dark currents do not dominate over the minimum expected zodiacal background signal over the field of regard. The
detectors are nonlinearly sensitive to temperature, and the temperature requirements are designed to limit heat input
into the arrays. The multi-stage radiator system includes shields to intercept heat from the solar panel and spacecraft.
The observatory’s sunshade blocks sunlight and carries the solar panels. A shield underneath the instrument intercepts
heat emitted from the ∼300 K spacecraft bus, and three radiators coated with high-emissivity black paint affixed to the
back of the instrument reject heat from the thermal shields, readout electronics, and detectors. The passive thermal
system does not require expendable cryogens or cryocoolers (Figure 1). The thermal system employs industry-standard
thermal margins and design practices to stabilize the telescope, baffles, and focal plane temperatures (Hoffman et al.
2022) and derives heritage from the Spitzer Space Telescope (Finley et al. 2004; Finley 2005; Lawrence & Finley 2004).
From SEL1, it is possible to downlink at 150 Mbps using NASA’s 35-m Deep Space Network dishes. This high-rate
data link allows for the transmission of the individual 30-second Exposures collected by the instrument in both NC1
and NC2 channels simultaneously that are used to construct each 180-second observation.
The telescope optical system consists of a three-mirror anastigmat design that provides a field of view of 1.68◦x
7.08◦with no central obscuration, thus maximizing sensitivity and eliminating diffraction spikes due to the secondary
mirror support structure. There is no focus mechanism; focus is set through a series of measurements made on the
ground at the operating temperature that account for the deformation of the optical system as it cools down. The same
field of view is imaged simultaneously by the two channels using a germanium beamsplitter, with NC1 being reflected
and NC2 transmitted through the beamsplitter. Both channels utilize transmission filters to define their bandpasses.
Each focal plane consists of a 4x1 array of 2048x2048-pixel HgCdTe detectors that are closely packed together to
minimize the gaps between individual arrays that can cause loss of moving object detections and thus break links6
Figure 3. The NEO Surveyor field of regard (gray cones) is shown compared to that of NEOWISE (pink cones) and the orbit
of the Earth (dashed line). The simulated population of PHAs larger than 50 m at the time of discovery is shown as blue dots.
The NEOWISE field of regard is limited by its relatively short sunshade and low-Earth orbit, which prohibits it from reaching
the near-Sun regions on the sky where NEOs are more likely to be found. NEO Surveyor’s sunshade is tall enough to enable it
to observe down to 45◦from the Sun, subtending a larger portion of the PHAs.
between detections. The gap spacing between arrays is 2.4 mm for both channels, with a plate scale of ∼3 arcsec per
18µm pixel.
The instrument can safely point anywhere from 45-125◦in elongation from the Sun including both ecliptic poles;
this is defined as the instrument operable zone. The field of regard of the survey is a subset of this area, spanning
45-120◦in longitudinal distance from the Sun and stopping at ±40◦ecliptic latitude (Figure 3). Calibration fields are
measured at the ecliptic poles once per week, since a large set of well-characterized calibration targets are found in
these regions (Reach et al. 2005; Jarrett et al. 2011; Carey et al. 2012).
Calibration for NEO Surveyor focuses on two high level objectives, astrometric accuracy of <0.5 arcseconds (1
sigma rms) for sources of SNR ≥20 and photometric accuracy of better than 7% for bright (non photon-noise limited),
unsaturated point sources. These requirements help to ensure that the survey produces data of sufficient quality
to accurately measure orbits and diameters of the population of near-Earth objects greater than 140 meters in size.
Using photometric calibration methods demonstrated with Spitzer and WISE and astrometric calibration based on
the Gaia astrometric frame of reference, the absolute photometric calibration is expected to be better than 4% and
the astrometric accuracy for SNR ≥20 sources to be better than 0.3 arcsec per detection.
The sensitivity of the Observatory varies over the sky due to the wide range of solar longitudes covered by the field
of regard. In both NC1 and NC2, the sensitivity is dominated by the natural zodiacal background, which varies by
roughly a factor of 20 and 10 in NC1 and NC2, respectively. From a zodiacal background model based on DIRBE
measurements, we estimate the zodiacal background to range from ∼220-4200 nWm−2sr−1in NC1 and from ∼1700-
22,000 nWm−2sr−1in NC2 across the NEO Surveyor field of regard (Wright 1998; Leinert et al. 1998). Since we
plan to extract point sources at a signal-to-noise ratio of 5 or greater, we quantify sensitivity as five times the noise
equivalent spectral irradiance (denoted NESI 5). The sensitivity calculation takes into account the sampling of the
NEO Surveyor instrument’s point spread function, the integration times in both channels, the telescope entrance pupil7
area, the thermal self-emission, stray light, dark current, and other parameters. The NESI 5is computed across the
full field of regard and is required to be within 65-120 µJy in the NC1 channel and 110-280 µJy in the NC2 channel.
3.CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS
The mission’s science operations consist of a highly repetitive survey pattern that is optimized for potentially
hazardous object detection and is continuously executed throughout the baseline mission. Each day, the survey
pattern is executed continuously, breaking only to downlink for a total of 2.25 hours/day, to perform calibrations, and
occasionally to perform station-keeping and momentum management maneuvers.
The essential unit of the survey is the Visit , which consists of a set of six dithered individual Exposures , each 30
sec long and collected in a roughly hexagonal pattern with a ∼10 arcsec step length (Figure 4). The dither step size
and number of steps is a configurable table that can be adjusted in flight if needed. The six Exposures are co-added
together to form each Visit , and in order to measure the photometry of individual sources, the stack of Exposures is fit
simultaneously as appropriate for data taken with an undersampled system. A total of three minutes are allocated per
Visit , with an integration time of ∼145 s in both bands. All individual Exposures are downlinked each day, facilitating
improved artifact and noise rejection, searches for very-fast-moving NEOs, and for so-called “precovery” detections of
moving objects discovered at a later time and subsequently recovered in the NEO Surveyor images.
Within each Exposure , the NC1 and NC2 arrays each have their own unique clocking and readout schemes that are
optimized to the astrophysical background level anticipated in each channel (including zodiacal light emission). NC1
collects 18 samples over the course of 26.6 sec in a “sample-up-the-ramp” mode with a 25.1 sec total net integration
time for the ramp; the slope that is fitted to the samples is downlinked, forming a single Exposure . Saturation detection
is provided by the Zemcov et al. (2016) algorithm that fits the slope to non-saturated portions of the ramp. For NC2,
eight individual correlated double sample (CDS) pairs of samples are collected in 27 sec (using 2.90 sec integration time
per CDS pair). The eight CDS pairs are co-added using a single-sided outlier rejection algorithm to provide resilience
against cosmic rays, forming the Exposure for that channel which is downlinked. A single dither step is executed after
each Exposure . For one Exposure in each dither sequence, the initial NC2 ‘pedestal’ frame (nominally taken 50 msec
after detector reset) of the first CDS pair is also downlinked to provide a constraint on the photometry of sources that
saturate within 2.90 sec.
Each patch of sky in the field of regard is covered a total of four times over ∼6-9 hours. The Observatory steps
in the short dimension of the 4x1 detector array to maximize efficiency for a total of 17 Visits before stepping up or
down in ecliptic latitude and moving across to form a Loop. This looping pattern is repeated until four Visits are
collected at each pointing on the sky (four Loops are denoted a Quad ). The pairs of positions and times collected
from detections harvested from Visits in each Quad are linked together to form a “tracklet”. Next, the survey steps in
ecliptic latitude collecting successive Quads until the full range from -40◦to +40◦is covered. This set of Quads forms
aStack ; two additional Stacks are collected before the Observatory flips over to the opposite side of the sky. Each
set of three Stacks is called a Side (see Figure 4). In the event that spurious sources interfere with reliable linking of
legitimate detections of small bodies, it is possible to increase the number of Loops performed to five with minimal
impact to survey completeness for NEOs >140 m. All data processing to reduce the data, including extracting sources
and linking tracklets, is performed on the ground.
The detectors collect photons for 56.7% of the total time, with camera readout overhead taking 11.7%, slews between
dither steps taking 4.9%, slews between Visits taking 15.7%, and all other activities (including daily downlinks,
momentum management, and calibration pointings) taking 10.8% of the total time. Over the course of the 5-year
baseline mission, roughly 630,000 Visits are collected.
NEO Surveyor will also be capable of executing targeted follow-up observations (TFOs) in order to obtain more
information on an object of special interest, including refined astrometry and improved photometric characterization.
The TFOs will use the same hexagonal pattern for each Visit , as in the nominal survey mode, but the Visit pattern
will be repeated on a single field for much longer to obtain up to ∼20x more exposures relative to a nominal survey
Visit . To avoid impacting the overall time available for the survey, the use of TFOs is minimized, since each TFO
expends propellant reserves and observing time at the expense of survey progress. Based on the current numbers of
objects on the Center for Near Earth Object Studies Sentry table of virtual impactors5, TFOs are not anticipated to
take more than 1% of total available survey time.
5https://cneos.jpl.nasa.gov/sentry/vi.html8
Figure 4. Overview of the survey pattern. (a) Each NEO Surveyor Visit consists of six Exposures collected in a hexagonal
dither pattern. (b) Visits are repeated in a Loop four times to make a Quad . (c) Quads are then tiled into Stacks , then Sides of
the Sun (Orange line). This figure shows two full Sides during the survey, made up of three Stacks each; darker colors indicate
the first Quad in each stack. This pattern is then repeated.
4.SURVEY DATA SYSTEM
Data processing and archiving for the NEO Surveyor mission is carried out by the NEO Surveyor Survey Data
System (NSDS) that is developed and operated at IPAC/Caltech. The NSDS is a highly automated, high-throughput
hardware, software, and operations system that is optimized to identify candidate moving objects. Elements of the
NSDS are based closely on the data systems developed and operated for WISE/NEOWISE and the Zwicky Transient
Facility (Cutri et al. 2012; Masci et al. 2019).
The NSDS will deliver moving object tracklets to the IAU Minor Planet Center (MPC) approximately two to
three times daily, typically following processing and quality assurance of a Quad . Tracklets are reported on average
within 72 hours following the observation time of the final detection of the last moving object in a set of delivered
tracklets. Included in the 72 hours is the fact that downlinks are conducted once per 24 hours; the ∼2 hours needed
to downlink; the time needed to transmit the data from ground stations to IPAC; and the time needed to process the
data to the point of extracting tracklets. The calibrated Exposure andVisit images and extracted source data will9
be publicly released semi-annually via the NASA/IPAC Infrared Science Archive (IRSA).6Along with positions and
times, estimated visual magnitudes will be delivered based on an average albedo, as is currently being provided by the
NEOWISE mission. These estimated visual magnitudes, while having large uncertainties, are nonetheless intended to
provide a guide for observers performing follow up observations using visible light telescopes.
The NSDS is comprised of a series of pipelines that convert raw NEO Surveyor data and telemetry into the mission’s
photometrically and astrometrically calibrated data products. The high level NSDS pipelines and Subsystems are as
follows:
•The Ingest/Raw Image Preparation Subsystem receives raw image data packets, engineering and housekeeping
telemetry, spacecraft navigation data, and constructs raw image products with metadata required for downstream
processing.
•TheExposure Subsystem first removes instrumental signatures from the raw detector images, masks bad pixels,
derives astrometric calibration solutions with respect to reference sources drawn from Gaia , gathers photometric
calibration solutions, and then attaches these to the image metadata. It then detects sources on the calibrated
images on both bands simultaneously and performs profile-fitting to measure source photometry in each NEO
Surveyor band along with positions in the International Celestial Reference System. Sources identified as instru-
mental artifacts or contaminated by artifacts are tagged in the output source list.
•TheVisit Pipeline combines (by co-adding) the six dithered calibrated Exposures in each Visit with pixel-outlier
masking included. This suppresses transient artifacts such as radiation hits and noisy pixels. This pipeline
then performs source detection on both bands simultaneously. Profile-fitting and aperture photometry are then
performed on each detection on the deeper combined set of six images in each band. Astrometric positions
are also solved for during profile-fitting. As done in the Exposure Pipeline, sources identified as instrumental
artifacts or contaminated by artifacts are tagged in the output source list.
•TheDifferencing Pipeline first performs image differencing by subtracting a sky reference image from both a Visit
image (co-add) and all overlapping Exposure (detector) images therein. Reference images are constructed for each
target Visit by co-adding Exposure images in all other Visits that overlap the target Visit on a Quad pointing.
The target Visit’s Exposures are omitted from the reference image co-add so as to not suppress moving-object
candidates identified in the target Visit . Sources are then detected on the combined set of difference images per
Visit on both bands simultaneously. Profile-fitting and aperture photometry are then performed with astrometric
positions derived from the profile-fit solutions. The detection list is then filtered to remove spurious sources using
a machine-learned (ML) classifier. This classifier uses a combination of a convolutional neural network applied
to image data and a transformer-based model applied to extracted source features. These are then fed to a
multilayer perceptron to infer the class of the detected source. This filtering results in a “purified” list of
candidate moving objects and includes objects resolved with respect to the point spread function (PSF). The
latter constitute probable comets. This list is now ready for tracklet generation (see below).
•TheMoving Object Detection Pipeline (MODP) first constructs tracklets by linking sources across the purified
detection lists for every Visit in a Quad generated by the Differencing Pipeline (see above). This linking is
performed by the NEO Surveyor Moving Object Detection Engine (NMODE), a variant of which is being used
for ZTF (Masci et al. 2019). This first pass finds the majority of solar system objects, and predominately
main belt asteroids (MBAs) within its restricted velocity-search thresholds (0.008 - 8.000◦/day). Following
filtering of tracklet detections from this first pass, a “slow NEO” search is performed by running NMODE with
loosened velocity tolerances. Following this, a search for “fast NEOs” (primarily small objects very close to the
spacecraft) is performed using velocity estimates provided by profile-fitting from the Differencing Pipeline. These
velocities are used to construct synthetic detections (time-tagged positions) within individual Visits and then fed
to NMODE to construct additional tracklets using further relaxed velocity-match thresholds. Tracklet quality
metrics and “moving co-add” images (in the co-moving frame of each candidate object), along with “collapsed
photometry” metrics are then computed. The list of tracklets, accompanying quality metrics, moving co-add
images, and ML-based scores for every detection from the Differencing Pipeline are then fed into the Automated
6https://irsa.ipac.caltech.edu/10
Tracklet Classification Subsystem (ATC). This subsystem attaches an overall reliability score to each tracklet as
well as a score to indicate if it is associated with a probable comet based on extendedness metrics derived from
moving co-adds and other contextual metadata.
•The Survey Data Quality Assurance (SDQA) Subsystem ingests QA metrics, images, tracklet metadata and
scores assigned by the automated classifiers from all processing steps upstream for a Quad . These products,
along with a subset of tracklets, are human reviewed and manually scored. Any updates to the automated
quality scores (for either tracklets, detections therein, or both) are fed back to the automated-classifier training
frameworks to improve their performance. A list of tracklets with associated metadata, including associations to
known objects and reliability scores from both automated classification and human vetting, is delivered to the
MPC. The SDQA Subsystem also trends select quality metrics as the survey proceeds. Key metrics are included
in reports and used to monitor survey performance.
•The Archive and Database Preparation Pipeline collects the location of all image products, source lists, and
metrics from the Pipeline Operations system, along with quality scores following human vetting and prepares
these into “load scripts” for ingestion into the NASA/IPAC Infrared Science Archive (IRSA).7Source lists and
Visit images are delivered and made publicly available through IRSA every six months.
•TheStatic Sky Atlas Image Pipeline is executed every 12 months to construct deep co-adds mosaicked on ∼14◦
x 14◦sky footprints using all good quality survey Exposures processed during the preceding 12 months. These
co-adds will have an average depth of ∼160Exposures or∼2.8 magnitudes deeper than a single Exposure image.
Atlas Images are publicly released through IRSA every 12 months.
•TheImage Simulation Subsystem uses the current best estimates for detector and telescope performance along
with catalogs of solar system and astrophysical sources to construct high-fidelity simulations of the image data
that will be collected by NEO Surveyor. These simulated images are used to support development, testing,
design decisions, explore expected survey performance, and verify key functionality prior to launch.
5.PERFORMANCE MODELING
To derive the requirements for the NEO Surveyor mission and to model its performance, a simulator was developed
that is capable of replicating the properties of the Observatory, its survey cadence and operational characteristics, and
the capabilities of the ground software used to extract detections of moving object candidates and link them together.
The survey simulation includes a model representation of the solar system’s small bodies, including the targets of
the NEO Surveyor mission, near-Earth asteroids and comets, as well as the dominant source of moving background
confusion, the main belt asteroids. This model, known as the Reference Small Body Population Model (RSBPM), is
being used throughout the mission as a stable “yardstick” for assessing survey completeness for the NEOs, comets,
and their sub-populations.
The steps of the survey simulation are as follows:
1. Create a reference population model of target small body populations (NEOs and comets) and background
populations (main belt asteroids).
2. Generate a list of survey fields, taking into account the required number and temporal spacing of detections for
orbit determination, the Observatory’s keep-out zones, and requirements for non-survey activities such as daily
downlinks and momentum management.
3. Propagate the ephemerides of each object to the time of each Visit .
4. Evaluate whether the object falls within the Observatory’s field of view.
5. Evaluate which objects in the field of view are bright enough to be detected above the SNR threshold (SNR >5).
6. Evaluate whether an individual object has accumulated the minimum number of detections to successfully link
the detections together reliably.
7https:irsa.ipac.caltech.edu11
7. Assess whether the detections fall within the limits for apparent rates of motion (0.008 - 8.000◦/day).
8. Tabulate numbers of detected objects and assess survey completeness as a function of size and subpopulation.
The sections below describe these steps in greater detail.
5.1. Reference Population Model Generation
The reference population model contains both NEOs and background objects. Although NEO Surveyor’s Level 1
requirements focus on the detection of NEAs and comets, a robust model of the background population is necessary
to ensure that NEOs can be reliably distinguished from more distant small bodies using the mission’s planned survey
cadence. At the sensitivity depth of NEO Surveyor, MBAs typically outnumber NEOs by a factor of 1000 in Visits
taken near the ecliptic plane. In addition to being used to predict the survey performance, the RSBPM is also used
to generate the synthetic solar system object detections included in the NSDS simulated images.
5.1.1. NEO Model
The first step in generating the NEO population is to create diameters for all objects in the model. Diameters
were generated using the inverse transform method to randomly sample a cumulative size distribution. Following
Stokes et al. (2017), the cumulative size distribution was taken to have the functional form of a triple power law with
N > D−α, where N is the cumulative number of objects, D is the diameter, and αis the slope of the power law. A
cumulative slope of –2.75 was assumed for diameters D >1.5 km, –1.64 for objects with 70 m <D<1.5 km, and –3.2 for
D<70 m. To be conservative, the cumulative size distribution was assumed to be identical for all dynamical groups
of NEOs (Atiras, Atens, Apollos, and Amors), although there is some evidence that the slopes may vary within these
groups (Mainzer et al. 2012a). The total number of objects is 993 ±38 NEAs at 1 km diameter based on Mainzer et al.
(2011b) and Granvik et al. (2018); the above cumulative size distribution results in a total of 25,000 asteroids larger
than 140 m being generated.
To determine the visible geometric albedos for the synthetic objects, we used NEOWISE data as the basis of the
model. The sample of NEOs detected by the NEOWISE mission’s automated detection software, the WISE Moving
Object Processing System (WMOPS; Mainzer et al. 2011c), represents our best understanding of the NEO albedo
distribution. This is because WMOPS detects objects based solely on their thermal infrared fluxes, either at 12 µm
during the phases of the mission when that channel was operational (Mainzer et al. 2011a, 2012b), or at 5 µm during
the remaining ∼10 years after the survey to date (Mainzer et al. 2014; Mainzer et al. 2019; Nugent et al. 2015, 2016;
Masiero et al. 2017). By selecting objects based on their thermal infrared flux instead of their reflected sunlight,
the NEOWISE sample is relatively unbiased with respect to albedo. To date, ∼1380 NEOs have been detected by
WMOPS, giving us insight into the relative fractions of low albedo vs. high albedo NEOs for Atens, Apollos, and
Amors.
The NEOWISE-detected NEO albedo distribution consists of a group of dark objects with a peak of ∼0.03 likely to
have carbonaceous compositions and a group of bright objects with a peak of 0.17, most probably associated with stony
or metallic compositions. Wright et al. (2016) modeled this as a double Rayleigh distribution with peaks centered
at 0.03 and 0.17. The fraction of bright to dark objects for each subgroup (Atira, Aten, Apollo, Amor) was used
to randomly select whether a given object belonged to the bright or dark group. Since very little is known about
the albedo distribution of the Atiras, the fraction of bright to dark Atiras was assumed to be identical to that of the
WMOPS-selected Atens. Once a particular object was determined to belong to the bright or dark group, the albedo was
then randomly selected using the inverse transform of the cumulative distribution of the appropriate Rayleigh function.
Figure 5 shows the probability distribution functions (PDFs) that were used to generate the albedo distributions of the
model compared to the WMOPS-selected albedo distributions for the various NEA dynamical classes. The PDFs are
not a perfect match to the individual populations’ distributions, partially because they are limited to fall within 0.015
< pV<0.60 and partially because NEO albedos depend strongly on absolute Hmagnitudes, which can have large
uncertainties due to the wide range of phase angles at which NEOs are frequently observed. Nonetheless, we tested
the simulation with a number of variations of the PDFs, and there was no difference within the statistical uncertainty
in the survey performance.
The NEO Surveyor NC1 channel spans 4.0-5.2 µm. For most NEOs over the majority of their orbits, this channel
will typically be dominated by thermal emission, but it is important to compute the fraction of reflected sunlight that
contributes to the measured flux. Previous studies with NEOWISE were able to fit the albedo at 3.6 µm (Mainzer12
Figure 5. Probability distribution functions (solid gray areas) for the Visible geometric albedo distributions pVof the model
NEAs compared to the measurements for Atens, Apollos, and Amors detected by the NEOWISE based on their thermal fluxes.
et al. 2011a; Masiero et al. 2014), but only for populations of more distant objects was the albedo at 4.6 µm able
to be determined separately (Grav et al. 2012b,a). Here, we assumed that pIR=p3.4µm=p4.6µm. The albedo in
channel NC1 ( pIR) was generated by selecting a value for the ratio of pIR/pVusing a Gaussian kernel density estimator
(KDE) with a PDF drawn from NEOs with fitted p3.6µmvalues (those with fit code “DVBI”) found in Mainzer et al.
(2019). Fit codes are the values used in Mainzer et al. (2019) to denote which parameters were fitted versus assumed
in thermal modeling performed on NEOWISE-detected objects. Infrared albedo pIRwas limited to 0.015 < pIR<0.70
(Figure 6a).
Figure 6. (a) Fraction of pIR/pVfor the RSBPM model compared to the ∼90 NEOWISE-detected NEOs for which pIRcould
be measured in Mainzer et al. (2011b). (b) Distribution of beaming parameters ( η) for the RSBPM model compared to the
∼317 NEOWISE-detected NEOs for which ηcould be measured. (c) Distribution of absolute visible magnitudes for the RSBPM
model containing only NEAs ≥140 m compared to that of the known NEOs to date; the distributions match well until the point
at which the population becomes significantly less observationally complete.
To facilitate use of the near-Earth asteroid thermal model (NEATM; Harris 1998) to compute RSBPM small body
fluxes, we generated the beaming parameter ηused by NEATM for each object. Beaming values were similarly selected
using the KDE with the PDF drawn from the fitted beaming values in Mainzer et al. (2019, fit code “B”) (Figure 6b).
Absolute magnitude Hwas calculated using the previously generated diameters and pVwith the relationship
D(km) = (1329 /√pV)10−H
5 (1)13
(Fowler & Chillemi 1992). Figure 6c shows the distribution of Hmagnitudes in the RSBPM model for NEAs larger
than 140 m compared to those of all known NEOs that have been discovered to date (roughly 30,000 objects). Figure
7 shows the distributions of Hmagnitudes broken down by diameter bins.
Figure 7. The distribution of Hmagnitudes for NEOs is shown for various diameter bins, illustrating that the canonical
assumption that NEAs with H <22 mag are all larger than 140 m in diameter is incorrect; many NEOs larger than 140 m have
H >22 mag.
Orbital elements from the Minor Planet Center’s NEO catalog with H <20 mag form the basis of the probability
distribution functions sampled by a Gaussian KDE to obtain the orbital elements for the synthetic NEOs. This method
preserves the observed correlations between orbital elements. At present, more than 90% of NEOs larger than ∼1
km are thought to have been discovered (Mainzer et al. 2011a; Granvik et al. 2018), corresponding to an object with
H=17.75 mag for a visible geometric albedo of 0.14. While the fraction of known NEOs with H < 20 mag is not
observationally complete, this limit ensures an adequate number of objects from which to sample orbital elements and
results in a reasonable match to the orbital elements of the observed population (Figure 8). The relative numbers of
Atiras, Atens, Apollos, and Amors were chosen to be 1.4%, 3.5%, 55.1%, and 40.0% based on the fractions given in
Mainzer et al. (2011b) and Granvik et al. (2018).
The number of unique representations of each population is determined by the desired uncertainty to be achieved for
survey completeness. We can compute the number of objects required in the population using the binomial population
confidence interval8, which computes the probability of success from a set of nsuccess-failure trials (e.g. a particular
asteroid is either detected or not). The number of trials needed to measure a quantity to 95% confidence is determined
by
ˆp±zr
ˆp(1−ˆp)
n(2)
where ˆ pis the fraction of successes in a Bernoulli trial process with ntrials and zis the probit of the target error
rate (equal to 1.96 for 95% confidence). For an expected survey completeness of ˆ p=82% in 5 years (see Section 6),
we require n∼7,000 objects in the population to model survey completeness to <1% at 95% confidence. If we want
to be able to divide the population into subgroups (for example, separating out objects by MOID or dynamical class,
or by size), we will want an appropriately larger number of asteroids. To this end, we have created 25 solar system
representations (SSRs) each with 25,000 NEAs larger than 140 m to assess survey completeness.
5.1.2. Background Object Model
The main belt asteroids (MBAs) are the dominant source of background objects for NEO Surveyor; we estimate that
MBAs will outnumber NEOs by roughly 1000:1 in every Visit near the ecliptic plane. Therefore, it is important to
model this background population well enough that tracklet linking efficiency and orbit determination can be evaluated
8https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binomial proportion confidence interval14
Figure 8. Orbital properties of the model NEOs were derived from the orbital elements of all known objects with H <20 mag.
accurately in the presence of such objects. A model of non-NEO background populations was generated that includes
Mars crossers, inner, middle, and outer MBAs, Hungarias, and more distant objects. For purposes of this simulation,
the “inner MBAs” are defined as having perihelion distance q >1.3 au, semimajor axis a≤2.5 au, and eccentricity
e <0.95. “Middle” MBAs are defined as q >1.3 au, 2.5 < a≤2.82 au, and eccentricity e <0.95. “Outer” MBAs
are defined as q >1.3 au, 2.82 < a≤3.6 au, and eccentricity e <0.95. At the sensitivity levels of NEO Surveyor, the
background population is dominated by small Mars crossers and inner MBAs.
Similar to the method for generating the synthetic NEAs, generation of the background objects begins with select-
ing the diameters using the inverse transform method to randomly sample the cumulative size distributions of the
populations down to a specified minimum size. Like the NEAs, the inner, middle, and outer MBAs’ size distributions
each follow a triple power law of the form N > D−α. Fitting this function to each of the three groups using data from
NEOWISE (Mainzer et al. 2019), which is based on the fits found in Masiero et al. (2014), results in the slopes and
breaks shown in Table 1. For simplicity, the cumulative size distribution of Mars-crossing asteroids and Hungarias was
assumed to be identical to that of the inner MBAs.
The minimum size for all three populations was determined by assessing the probability that 90% of objects of a
given size would ever be detectable by NEO Surveyor. This was assessed by placing the objects at their perihelia at
120◦solar elongation (equivalent to the region where the NEO Surveyor 5- σsensitivity is 50 µJy). This corresponds
to size limits of 400 m, 500 m, and 750 m in the inner, middle, and outer main belt respectively, for a total of 12.2
million objects. While it is possible that there is a break in the size distribution at larger sizes than these limits (c.f.
Bottke et al. 2020), they represent conservative assumptions about the possible number of background objects that
NEO Surveyor could detect for purposes of understanding the potential for confusion with NEOs. In total, we estimate
that NEO Surveyor will be highly complete for MBAs: completeness is estimated to be >99% and >91% for objects
down to 750 m in the inner and middle belt, respectively. Completeness will likely exceed 90% in the outer belt for
objects larger than 1 km.
Visible geometric albedos were selected for each of the populations using a Gaussian KDE to select from the objects
with fitted pV(denoted by fit code “V”) found in Mainzer et al. (2019). Albedos were limited to 0.015 < pV<0.70.
Beaming parameters were similarly selected using the KDE from the objects for which beaming could be fitted in15
the NEOWISE data (fit codes containing “B” in Mainzer et al. 2019). Albedos at 4.6 µm were selected by randomly
drawing the ratio pIR/pVfrom the objects in Mainzer et al. (2019) with fit codes of “I” and multiplying this ratio
by the object’s pV, subject to the condition that 0.015 < pIR<0.70. Figure 9 shows the comparison of the model’s
physical properties elements to data from the MPC and NEOWISE.
Figure 9. Top row: Distribution of absolute visible magnitudes ( H) for the RSBPM model (dashed lines) for inner, middle, and
outer MBAs compared to known objects in the MPC’s holdings (solid lines). The median Hmagnitude for the MPC catalog for
each population is shown as a dotted vertical line. Known objects brighter than H <17.75, 17.25, and 16.75 mag respectively
were used as the basis for randomly drawing orbital elements for the synthetic objects in the inner, middle, and outer main
belt. Second row from top: Normalized visible geometric albedo distribution pVof the model inner, middle, and outer MBAs
compared to the measurements of ∼130,000 known objects detected based on their 12- or 5- µm fluxes by NEOWISE. Third
row from top: Normalized distribution of beaming parameters ( η) for the RSBPM model compared to the NEOWISE-detected
inner, middle, and outer MBAs for which ηcould be measured. Bottom row: Normalized fraction of pIR/pVfor the RSBPM
model compared to the NEOWISE-detected inner, middle, and outer MBAs for which pIRcould be measured.
Similar to the NEAs, orbital elements were selected from the MPC’s sample of objects thought to be observationally
complete using a Gaussian KDE. Observational completeness is defined as the turnover point in the Hmagnitude
distribution of known objects as recorded in the MPC’s catalog. Figure 9 (top row) shows the completeness limits for16
Table 2. Slopes and breaks for the triple power laws used to model the inner, middle,
and outer MBAs.
Population α0 α1 α2 D0 D1 N1km Dmax
(km) (km) (km)
Inner MBAs 2.83855 1.06297 2.08754 12.9908 59.6530 245917 196.371
Middle MBAs 2.80428 1.21062 3.96481 12.4747 103.0874 804209.5 231.689
Outer MBAs 2.47882 1.34556 2.6616 19.276 75.342 1600322 453.239
the MBAs as a function of Hmagnitude, taken to be H <17.75, 17.25, and 16.75 mag for the inner, middle, and outer
MBAs respectively.
In order to reduce the data volume of objects in the model, only those asteroids that have a chance of being detectable
by NEO Surveyor were saved. As described above, an object was determined to be potentially visible by placing it
at its perihelion at 120◦solar elongation and computing its thermal flux at NC2 using its diameter, pV, and η. Only
objects with NC2 fluxes >50µJy are kept.
Figure 10 shows the comparison of the model’s orbital elements to data from the MPC and NEOWISE for objects
with H <15 mag (the population that is observationally complete throughout the main belt). Figure 11 shows the
comparison of the model to NEOWISE data when pVis taken into account; while the model lacks the defined albedo
structure of collisional families (Masiero et al. 2014), it faithfully reproduces the overall gradient of darkening albedo
with increasing semimajor axis and produces an appropriate number of background objects near the NEO Surveyor
sensitivity limit.
Figure 10. Orbital properties of the model background objects compared with those of the known objects.17
Figure 11. Albedo distribution as a function of orbital elements of (left) the reference model population and (right) NEOWISE-
detected objects from Masiero et al. (2013).
5.2. Survey Plan Generation
The simulator includes a survey plan modeling tool (SPMT) that during mission development generates the survey
plan, which consists of a sequence of Visits which respect the Observatory’s operable orientation zones. The SPMT
creates the successive Loops (which produce Quads of detections that are linked together to form tracklets of minor
planet detections), Stacks , and Sides for the duration of the 5-year baseline mission; see Figure 4 for a representation
of the survey pattern.
The SPMT first creates a grid of positions in latitude and longitude that are fixed on the sky, then uses the ephemeris
of the telescope in its SEL1 halo orbit to compute the line of sight with respect to the predicted positions of the Sun
and Moon. The list of pointings is recursively edited to avoid keep out zones around the Moon and the Sun. Nominally,
the survey will maintain a minimum separation of 20◦from the Moon to minimize the impacts of scattered moonlight.
Loops with fewer than six Visits are deleted to ensure that tracklets span at least one hour.
The SPMT also edits the list of pointings to avoid taking Visits during specified times when the telescope is
unavailable due to downlinks, slews, momentum management, calibrations, and orbit station-keeping maneuvers.
During mission development, these “survey keep-out windows” (SKOWs) are scheduled algorithmically for the entire
mission in advance of SPMT runs by an adaptation of a high-heritage spacecraft activity planning framework that
has been used in the past to generate Mars 2020 cruise background sequences, schedule Mars 2020 relay orbiter
communication, and create command products for the Mars InSight lander. The SKOW events are rescheduled
periodically as the concept of operations matures to maximize time available for survey. After the SPMT runs,
branching off from the data flow of the survey performance simulator described below, the same program that creates
the SKOW events reads back in the SPMT-generated survey plan to create an integrated set of mission timelines and
orientation plans. These derived products are distributed to the wider NEO Surveyor team, which feeds and improves
consistency between various investigation and engineering analyses.
5.3. Ephemeris Propagation18
To eliminate the need to store large files of synthetic object state vectors, an N-body orbit state propagation code
is used to compute the positions of the synthetic objects in the simulation. The code uses an initial value problem
formulation with a numerical integrator (scipy’s solve ivpfunction using the ‘LSODA’ method), taking the initial
positions and velocities of each object and the major sources of perturbations (the planets and the largest asteroids)
and computing their subsequent positions and velocities using the sum of the forces from the N bodies acting on
them. In the initial value problem formulation (IVP) method, the IVP can solve ford f
dt=y(f(t)), provided the initial
condition f(t0) is known. In the case of orbit propagation, the initial positions and velocities of all planets and bodies
are known, and their derivatives with respect to time are their velocities and accelerations:
δ[p0, p1, ...v 0, v1, ...]
δt= [v0, v1, ..., a 0, a1, ...] (3)
where [ p0, p1, ...v 0, v1, ...] are the positions and velocities of all perturbing bodies and the particles respectively, and
[a0, a1, ...] are the accelerations; these are simply the sum of all forces acting on each object. The code takes into
account the general relativistic force due to the Sun using
aREL =GM⊙
c2|r|3h4GM⊙
|r|− |v2|
r+ 4(r·v)vi
(4)
following the method recommended in Farnocchia et al. (2015), where Gis the gravitational constant, cis the speed
of light, M⊙is the Sun’s mass, ris the position of the body, and vis its velocity. These initial conditions and forces
acting on the bodies are supplied to the IVP, and it solves for the positions and velocities at the next time interval.
This N-body propagation method is used to compute positions at specified intervals (taken here to be one hour)
for all objects in the simulation; positions at the individual Visits between these one-hour intervals are computed
through linear interpolation to improve computational speed. Comparison of the outputs of the positions computed in
this fashion were compared with Horizons positions of known objects, and they agree to within 0.3 arcsec for 99.95%
ofVisits over the 5-year duration of the survey (see Masiero et al. 2023). We require that computed ephemeris
uncertainty for 99.9% of synthetic objects in the survey simulation be less than 0.4 arcsec, so that the analysis is
dominated by the astrometric uncertainty of the positional measurements rather than computational precision.
5.4. Field of View Checks
Once the ephemerides for all bodies in the model have been determined for the times of all Visits in the survey,
a comparison to the NEO Surveyor field of view is made to determine whether or not each object fell within it in
each of the two channels. The simulator takes into account positional uncertainty due to the modeled performance of
the spacecraft attitude determination and control system and the gaps between the individual detectors in each focal
plane module. Both NC1 and NC2 fields of view are required to overlap to within 95% of their projected areas on the
sky to maximize the chances of an object being detected in both bands. The positions and velocities of all potential
detections that fell within a chip are stored in a database.
5.5. Detection
The next step in the simulation is to assess whether a potential detection (defined as an object that appears within
the field of view of an individual chip) would be bright enough to be detected. This requires computation of the flux
from the object and comparison to the sensitivity of the survey, which varies across the sky as a function of latitude
and longitude. The driving source of background at 8 µm is the zodiacal background, particularly at the lowest solar
elongation that NEO Surveyor can observe (45◦), while at 4.6 µm it is a combination of detector read noise and zodiacal
background. A grid of sensitivities is computed across the sky, taking into account the image quality and throughput of
the optical system, detector quantum efficiency, contributions from the natural astrophysical background, and thermal
emission from the optical system.
The model assumes a probabilistic detection model based on NSDS image simulation results in which objects with
signal-to-noise ratios (SNR) between 5-10 are detected 85% of the time; this increases to 95% detection probability
for SNR=10-20 and 99% for SNR >20. Objects below SNR=5 are not counted as detected. This is likely to be a
conservative estimate based on the performance of NEOWISE, which currently forms tracklets out of detections made19
with SNR >4.5 (Mainzer et al. 2014)9. NEO Surveyor uses detections made on differenced images, rather than direct
images, which helps to suppress background sources.
Small body fluxes are modeled using an implementation of the near-Earth asteroid thermal model (NEATM; Harris
1998), with an option to use the fast-rotating model (FRM; Lebofsky et al. 1978). Objects are modeled as spheres
with points placed evenly on them using a variation of the Fibonacci Lattice algorithm. Phase curve parameter G
(from the Bowell et al. (1989) H-G asteroid phase curve formalism) was assumed to be 0.15 mag for all objects, and
emissivity was set to 0.9. The algorithm was validated through comparisons to the NEOWISE data for NEOs and
MBAs. See Masiero et al. 2023 for more details on this validation.
Figure 12 shows the distances at which NEOs of different sizes can be detected for NEO Surveyor, depending on the
choice of thermal model (NEATM vs. FRM).
Figure 12. Detectable range for NEO Surveyor at SNR=5 or greater of typical NEOs at sizes ranging from 25 m to 1 km with
pV=0.15 computed using the NEATM model (solid contour lines) and the FRM model (dashed contour lines). Since NEAs
below∼200 m are more likely to be rapid rotators (Pravec et al. 2008), the FRM model is probably the more appropriate choice
for objects in this size range and lower.
5.6. Assembling Tracklets and Tracks
The penultimate step in the survey simulation is to determine which individual detections of minor planets can be
reliably linked into “tracklets”. The NEO Surveyor image simulator is used to assess the efficiency with which tracklets
can be linked by creating simulated images implanted with synthetic moving objects and extracting them and linking
them together using NMODE. The linking efficiency is supplied to the survey simulator as a single parameter taken
to be 99% based on historical experience from the performance of linking tracklets from the NEOWISE mission to
known or new objects. NEOWISE is the closest analog at present, but a robust testing regime is being planned with
the MPC to confirm this assumed value. Moving object velocities must fall within 0 .008−8.000◦/day to be counted
9https://wise2.ipac.caltech.edu/docs/release/neowise/expsup/sec4 3.html#Adaptations20
as a tracklet; the lower limit is set by the need to be able to distinguish motion in the ∼2 hours between Visits that
observe the same area of sky, using the ∼3 arcsec NC2 point spread function. For a bright source, motion of ∼0.25
PSFs between Visits should be detectable. The upper velocity limit is set by the point at which trailing losses of the
source within individual Exposures become significant.
The final step in the simulation of NEO Surveyor’s performance is to determine which tracklets can be linked into
“tracks”, which are sets of at least two tracklets spanning ∼13 days. This step is performed by the MPC. The linking
efficiency is modeled as being 99% based on historical experience from the performance of linking tracklets from the
NEOWISE mission to known or new objects (as opposed to being sent to the MPC’s Isolated Tracklet File). At
present, NEOWISE is the closest analog, but a robust test plan is being carried out with the MPC to confirm this
assumed value. Once a track is formed, in most cases an orbit can be computed for the object, leading to it being
formally designated as a discovery by the MPC if the object has not been previously identified. At this point, an
object is counted by the survey simulator and included in the assessment of survey completeness.
Astrophysical background sources will be removed via image subtraction, so will not significantly impact tracklet
building or linking. There will, however, likely be confusion in linking together the MBAs observed, especially at the
start of the mission when many will not be previously known. However, because MBAs do not change rapidly in
brightness, we expect to see most MBAs every 13 days for long periods of time, which will remove much of the linking
ambiguity after the first year or so of operations.
6.PERFORMANCE PREDICTIONS
The NEO Surveyor project builds upon the discoveries made by past and present NEO surveys. To properly account
for the objects that they have and will discover between now and launch, a model of the ground-based NEO surveys
has been developed (Grav et al. 2023). By fitting a curve to the rate of discovery as a function of sky coverage
and sensitivity of the Spacewatch, Catalina Sky Survey and PanSTARRS telescopes, we estimate that the current
completeness for NEAs larger than 140 m is ∼40%. The performance of these surveys can be projected into the future,
and objects in the synthetic survey are marked as likely to have been found prior to launch. For simplicity, we assumed
in the model that all ground-based surveys stopped at the start of the NEO Surveyor survey. The results, including
the combined total of the NEO Surveyor survey performance along with the objects that have been or will be found
by the existing surveys are shown for objects larger than 140 m in Figure 13.
NEO Surveyor is particularly sensitive to PHAs due to the combination of its sensitivity and its field of regard
(Figure 3). NEO Surveyor’s view of the regions close to the Sun increases its probability of detecting objects in the
most circular, Earth-like orbits, which tend to have lower MOIDs (Figure 13). NEO Surveyor is well-suited to detecting
Atens, given their circular orbits, complementing ground-based surveys that search near opposition, which will tend to
be more sensitive to Apollos near aphelion and Amors. Figure 14 (left) shows the distribution of detections of PHAs
as a function of sky position for NEO Surveyor; the density of detections is highest at the lowest solar elongations,
illustrating the utility of surveying in these near-Sun regions. This can be compared with the distribution of MBAs
(Figure 14, right), which are preferentially distributed at higher elongations on the ecliptic.
We have not attempted to incorporate a model of the Vera C. Rubin Observatory (Ivezi´ c et al. 2019) in the perfor-
mance predictions of NEO Surveyor. Rubin collects observations on a different cadence from NEO Surveyor, and its
science objectives include an array of other topics. The number of NEOs it will discover depends on the details of its
observational cadence and tracklet/track linking efficiency (Grav et al. 2016; Vereˇ s & Chesley 2017; Jones et al. 2018).
If Rubin discovers many NEOs prior to the NEO Surveyor launch, it will benefit the current goal of planetary defense,
which is to come as close as possible to finding and cataloging >90% of PHAs >140 m. In addition, we seek to obtain
basic physical characterization of these objects and find as many smaller NEOs and comets as possible. Rubin and
NEO Surveyor are thus highly complementary, and both projects are likely to be necessary to achieve these difficult
objectives.
Rubin should help significantly in reducing a major source of confusion, main belt asteroids, as it should discover
and catalog a large number of distant objects that can cause broken tracklets or false linkages. In addition, we seek to
obtain visible geometric albedos ( pV) for as many objects as possible, as albedo has links to composition and taxonomy
(Stuart & Binzel 2004; Mainzer et al. 2012b). Rubin will provide measurements of phase curves and visible magnitudes,
which in turn will result in well-constrained albedos when combined with thermal measurements from NEO Surveyor.
The combination of Rubin and NEO Surveyor data should allow for derivation of albedos for millions of asteroids,21
Figure 13. Top: Survey completeness as a function of time for potentially hazardous asteroids larger than 140 m in diameter
(solid blue line). These simulations show that by the time the mission completes its baseline five year survey, NEO Surveyor will
have exceeded the mission’s Level 1 requirement of 2/3 survey completeness for PHAs ≥140 m in diameter (dashed gray line).
The PHA catalog will reach 90% completeness within 10 years of the launch of Surveyor, fulfilling the Congressional mandate
to NASA. The plot does not include possible contributions from Rubin. Survey completeness for Atiras, Atens, Apollos, and
Amors larger than 140 m are shown as dashed lines. Bottom: Survey completeness as a function of MOID.22
Figure 14. (Left) NEO Surveyor detections of PHAs larger than 140 m for five years of observations as a function of sky
position. The density of detections is greatest in the direction of the Sun. (Right) Detections of MBAs for five years of
observations. In both figures, the bands of enhanced detections are the result of small overlaps between Stacks .
providing a significant improvement in our understanding of the distributions of collisional family members as well as
NEO origins.
Because they can be seen at a greater range of distances, larger objects receive many detections spanning a wide
range of phase angles. Their mean observational phase is lower than that of smaller objects, which tend to be seen
when they are closer to the observatory. Figure 15 (top) shows that the phase angles for most objects larger than 140
m are typically less than 60◦, facilitating thermal modeling with NEATM (Mommert et al. 2018). Smaller objects are
more often observed at higher phase angles. Most objects larger than 140 m are observed with up to dozens or even
hundreds of detections (Figure 15, bottom), supporting the use of more detailed thermophysical models (e.g. Delb´ o
et al. 2007; Delb´ o & Tanga 2009; Al´ ı-Lagoa et al. 2014; Koren et al. 2015; Hung et al. 2022; Satpathy et al. 2022).
The default NEO Surveyor cadence is designed for self follow up; objects should not in general become lost. The
NEO Surveyor survey cadence results in observational arcs that span more than 10 days for the majority of >140 m
objects after two years of surveying (Figure 16). Most large objects are observed on multiple epochs spanning months
to years. This is consistent or better than the distribution of observational arc lengths currently available in the
existing catalog of known NEOs discovered by NEOWISE (Figure 17), which observes at a similar geometry. Figure
16 shows the distribution of tracklet and track lengths for tracklets corresponding to objects that form tracks and are
therefore counted as found. The minimum track length is set by the minimum observational arc needed by the MPC
to confirm and designate an orbit for a new discovery, based on experience with NEOWISE (Figure 17). Similarly,
the minimum length of individual tracklets within each track is set by the desire to have an observational arc long
enough to ensure that a tracklet can be successfully linked to a second tracklet for an object up to ∼28 days later.
The cadence should ease the burden of follow up so that resources can be reserved for objects of unusual interest or
to obtain characterization measurements such as spectroscopy, optical phase curves, or more detailed light curves.
7.CONCLUSION
NEO Surveyor will make significant and rapid progress toward the objective of finding and cataloging >90% of
PHAs larger than 140 m, in addition to providing measurements of their sizes and in many cases albedos. The results
of the mission will significantly improve our ability to mount a successful NEO deflection campaign, should it become
necessary. NEO Surveyor will additionally provide diameters for each cataloged object, and will generate a survey that
is size-limited survey as opposed to H-limited. Its thermal wavelengths will make it especially effective at discovering
dark C-type NEOs, which constitute a not-insignificant fraction of the NEO population.
The impact frequency from smaller NEOs will be determined by computing the size and orbital element distributions
of the objects (after accounting for survey biases), then taking these distributions and propagating them forward and
backward over the next several thousand years using a suitable numerical integrator to determine the average timescale23
Figure 15. Top: Distribution of phase angles for NEAs detected over the 5-year baseline mission, grouped by size. Bottom:
Number of detections per NEA as a function of size.
between impacts. By determining the size-frequency distribution for small NEOs using diameters instead of H, it will
be possible to significantly improve our understanding of the frequency of Earth impacts in the ∼20-140 m size range.
Moreover, by providing two-channel thermal infrared data on millions of main belt asteroids, thousands of comets,
and hundreds of thousands of NEOs, NEO Surveyor will support a host of scientific studies of these bodies. Detailed
probes of the size-frequency distribution of these populations will help to improve constraints on their origins as well
as impact probabilities. In addition, the project will complement multi-wavelength optical data expected to become
available from the Rubin Observatory. The publicly-released and archived data products of the NEO Surveyor mission
will enable not only the discovery of objects hazardous to the Earth, but also studies of objects both known and yet-
to-be found. It will also generate a vast catalog of images of the sky at thermal wavelengths spanning multiple epochs
that will support a wide array of astrophysical analyses. In the process of determining the probability of impacts from
NEOs in the next century, we will learn a great deal more about the solar system’s contents and origins.
8.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS24
Figure 16. Top: Distribution of track lengths for NEAs ≥140 m found by NEO Surveyor. Bottom: Distribution of lengths of
individual tracklets for these objects.
This publication makes use of data products from the NEO Surveyor, which is a joint project of the University of
Arizona and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory/California Institute of Technology, funded by the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration. We gratefully acknowledge the services and support of the International Astronomical Union’s
Minor Planet Center. This publication makes use of data products from the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer, which
is a joint project of the University of California, Los Angeles, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory/California Institute
of Technology, funded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. This publication also makes use of data
products from NEOWISE, which is a project of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory/University of Arizona, funded by the
Planetary Science Division of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. This research has made use of the
NASA/IPAC Infrared Science Archive, which is funded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and
operated by the California Institute of Technology.
We are extremely grateful to our anonymous referees; their comments have materially improved the clarity and
quality of this manuscript.
Facilities: WISE, NEOWISE, IRSA, MPC
Dataset usage:
WISE All-Sky 4-band Single-Exposure Images
AllWISE Source Catalog
NEOWISE-R Single Exposure (L1b) Source Table
Software: astropy (Astropy Collaboration et al. 2022), scipy (Virtanen et al. 2020), numpy (Harris et al. 2020),
SPICE (Acton 1996), spiceypy (Annex et al. 2020), Blackbird (Lawler et al. 2020)25
Figure 17. Arc length of NEOs discovered by the NEOWISE mission at the time that the MPC issued a Minor Planet
Electronic Circular, which we use as a proxy for the object having sufficient data to constrain an orbit. Vertical dotted lines
indicate 14 and 28 days. In total, 89% of the NEOs discovered by NEOWISE had arcs less than 14 days, while 99% had arcs
less than 28 days.
REFERENCES
Acton, C. H. 1996, Planetary and Space Science, 44, 65,
doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/0032-0633(95)00107-7
A’Hearn, M. F., Belton, M. J. S., Delamere, W. A., et al.
2005, Science, 310, 258, doi: 10.1126/science.1118923
Al´ ı-Lagoa, V., Lionni, L., Delbo, M., et al. 2014, A&A, 561,
A45, doi: 10.1051/0004-6361/201322215
Alvarez, L. W., Alvarez, W., Asaro, F., & Michel, H. V.
1980, Science, 208, 1095,
doi: 10.1126/science.208.4448.1095
Annex, A. M., Pearson, B., Seignovert, B., et al. 2020,
Journal of Open Source Software, 5, 2050,
doi: 10.21105/joss.02050
Astropy Collaboration, Price-Whelan, A. M., Lim, P. L.,
et al. 2022, ApJ, 935, 167,
doi: 10.3847/1538-4357/ac7c7410.48550/arXiv.2206.14220
Bauer, J. M., Grav, T., Fern´ andez, Y. R., et al. 2017, AJ,
154, 53, doi: 10.3847/1538-3881/aa72dfBelton, M., Morgan, T., Samarasinha, N., & Yeomans, D.
2004, in Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids,
ed. M. Belton, T. Morgan, N. Samarasinha, &
D. Yeomans, 38
Bottke, W. F., Morbidelli, A., Jedicke, R., et al. 2002,
Icarus, 156, 399, doi: 10.1006/icar.2001.6788
Bottke, W. F., Vokrouhlick´ y, D., Ballouz, R. L., et al. 2020,
AJ, 160, 14, doi: 10.3847/1538-3881/ab88d3
Bowell, E., Hapke, B., Domingue, D., et al. 1989, in
Asteroids II, ed. R. P. Binzel, T. Gehrels, &
M. S. Matthews, 524–556
Brown, P. G., Assink, J. D., Astiz, L., et al. 2013, Nature,
503, 238, doi: 10.1038/nature1274126
Carey, S., Ingalls, J., Hora, J., et al. 2012, in Society of
Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE)
Conference Series, Vol. 8442, Space Telescopes and
Instrumentation 2012: Optical, Infrared, and Millimeter
Wave, ed. M. C. Clampin, G. G. Fazio, H. A. MacEwen,
& J. Oschmann, Jacobus M., 84421Z,
doi: 10.1117/12.927183
Chambers, K. C., Magnier, E. A., Metcalfe, N., et al. 2016,
The Pan-STARRS1 Surveys, arXiv,
doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.1612.05560
Cheng, A. F., Michel, P., Jutzi, M., et al. 2016,
Planet. Space Sci., 121, 27, doi: 10.1016/j.pss.2015.12.004
Cutri, R. M., Wright, E. L., Conrow, T., et al. 2012, 1
Delb´ o, M., Dell’Oro, A., Harris, A. W., Mottola, S., &
Mueller, M. 2007, Icarus, 190, 236,
doi: 10.1016/j.icarus.2007.03.007
Delb´ o, M., & Tanga, P. 2009, Planet. Space Sci., 57, 259,
doi: 10.1016/j.pss.2008.06.015
DeMeo, F., & Binzel, R. P. 2008, Icarus, 194, 436,
doi: 10.1016/j.icarus.2007.10.011
Dorn, M. L., Pipher, J. L., McMurtry, C. W., et al. 2016,
Journal of Astronomical Telescopes, Instruments, and
Systems, 2, 036002, doi: 10.1117/1.JATIS.2.3.036002
Farnocchia, D., Chesley, S. R., Milani, A., Gronchi, G. F.,
& Chodas, P. W. 2015, in Asteroids IV, 815–834,
doi: 10.2458/azu uapress 9780816532131-ch041
Fern´ andez, Y. R., Jewitt, D. C., & Sheppard, S. S. 2005,
AJ, 130, 308, doi: 10.1086/430802
Finley, P. T. 2005, in Infrared Spaceborne Remote Sensing
2005, ed. M. Strojnik, Vol. 5883, International Society for
Optics and Photonics (SPIE), 588302,
doi: 10.1117/12.623454
Finley, P. T., Hopkins, R. A., & Schweickart, R. B. 2004, in
Optical, Infrared, and Millimeter Space Telescopes, ed.
J. C. Mather, Vol. 5487, International Society for Optics
and Photonics (SPIE), 26 – 37, doi: 10.1117/12.550547
Fowler, J. W., & Chillemi, J. R. 1992, The IRAS Minor
Planet Survey, Phillips Laboratory, Hanscom AF Base,
MA, Tech. Rep. PL-TR-92-2049, 17
Giorgini, J. D., Ostro, S. J., Benner, L. A. M., et al. 2002,
Science, 296, 132, doi: 10.1126/science.1068191
Granvik, M., Morbidelli, A., Jedicke, R., et al. 2018, Icarus,
312, 181, doi: 10.1016/j.icarus.2018.04.018
Grav, T., Mainzer, A. K., Bauer, J. M., Masiero, J. R., &
Nugent, C. R. 2012a, ApJ, 759, 49,
doi: 10.1088/0004-637X/759/1/49
Grav, T., Mainzer, A. K., & Spahr, T. 2016, AJ, 151, 172,
doi: 10.3847/0004-6256/151/6/172
Grav, T., Mainzer, A. K., Bauer, J., et al. 2012b, ApJ, 744,
197, doi: 10.1088/0004-637X/744/2/197Harris, A. W. 1998, Icarus, 131, 291,
doi: 10.1006/icar.1997.5865
Harris, A. W., & Chodas, P. W. 2021, Icarus, 365, 114452,
doi: 10.1016/j.icarus.2021.114452
Harris, C. R., Millman, K. J., van der Walt, S. J., et al.
2020, Nature, 585, 357, doi: 10.1038/s41586-020-2649-2
Helin, E. F., Pravdo, S. H., Rabinowitz, D. L., & Lawrence,
K. J. 1997, Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences,
822, 6
Helin, E. F., & Shoemaker, E. M. 1979, Icarus, 40, 321,
doi: 10.1016/0019-1035(79)90021-6
Hoffman, T., Liu, Y., Lysek, M., et al. 2022, in 2022 IEEE
Aerospace Conference (AERO), 1–16,
doi: 10.1109/AERO53065.2022.9843508
Hung, D., Hanuˇ s, J., Masiero, J. R., & Tholen, D. J. 2022,
PSJ, 3, 56, doi: 10.3847/PSJ/ac4d1f
Ivezi´ c, ˇZ., Kahn, S. M., Tyson, J. A., et al. 2019, ApJ, 873,
111, doi: 10.3847/1538-4357/ab042c
Jarrett, T. H., Cohen, M., Masci, F., et al. 2011, ApJ, 735,
112, doi: 10.1088/0004-637X/735/2/112
Jenniskens, P. 2015, in Asteroids IV, 281–295,
doi: 10.2458/azu uapress 9780816532131-ch015
Jenniskens, P., Shaddad, M. H., Numan, D., et al. 2009,
Nature, 458, 485, doi: 10.1038/nature07920
Jones, R. L., Slater, C. T., Moeyens, J., et al. 2018, Icarus,
303, 181, doi: 10.1016/j.icarus.2017.11.033
Kim, Y., Ishiguro, M., & Usui, F. 2014, ApJ, 789, 151,
doi: 10.1088/0004-637X/789/2/151
Koehn, B. W., & Bowell, E. L. G. 2000, in Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society, Vol. 32, AAS/Division
for Planetary Sciences Meeting Abstracts #32, 1018
Koren, S. C., Wright, E. L., & Mainzer, A. 2015, Icarus,
258, 82, doi: 10.1016/j.icarus.2015.06.014
Larson, S. 2007, in IAU Symposium, Vol. 236, IAU
Symposium, ed. G. B. Valsecchi, D. Vokrouhlick´ y, &
A. Milani, 323–328, doi: 10.1017/S1743921307003390
Lawler, C. R., Ridenhour, F. L., Khan, S. A., Rossomando,
N. M., & Rothstein-Dowden, A. 2020, in 2020 IEEE
Aerospace Conference, 1–20,
doi: 10.1109/AERO47225.2020.9172680
Lawrence, C. R., & Finley, P. T. 2004, in Optical, Infrared,
and Millimeter Space Telescopes, ed. J. C. Mather, Vol.
5487, International Society for Optics and Photonics
(SPIE), 124 – 133, doi: 10.1117/12.551949
Lebofsky, L. A., Veeder, G. J., Lebofsky, M. J., & Matson,
D. L. 1978, Icarus, 35, 336,
doi: 10.1016/0019-1035(78)90086-6
Leinert, C., Bowyer, S., Haikala, L. K., et al. 1998, A&AS,
127, 1, doi: 10.1051/aas:199810527
Mainzer, A., Grav, T., Masiero, J., et al. 2011a, ApJL, 737,
L9, doi: 10.1088/2041-8205/737/1/L9
Mainzer, A., Grav, T., Bauer, J., et al. 2011b, ApJ, 743,
156, doi: 10.1088/0004-637X/743/2/156
Mainzer, A., Bauer, J., Grav, T., et al. 2011c, ApJ, 731, 53,
doi: 10.1088/0004-637X/731/1/53
Mainzer, A., Grav, T., Masiero, J., et al. 2012a, ApJ, 752,
110, doi: 10.1088/0004-637X/752/2/110
Mainzer, A., Masiero, J., Grav, T., et al. 2012b, ApJ, 745,
7, doi: 10.1088/0004-637X/745/1/7
Mainzer, A., Bauer, J., Cutri, R. M., et al. 2014, ArXiv
e-prints. https://arxiv.org/abs/1406.6025
Mainzer, A., Bauer, J., Grav, T., et al. 2014, The
Astrophysical Journal, 784, 110.
http://stacks.iop.org/0004-637X/784/i=2/a=110
Mainzer, A., Grav, T., Bauer, J., et al. 2015, AJ, 149, 172,
doi: 10.1088/0004-6256/149/5/172
Mainzer, A. K., Bauer, J. M., Cutri, R. M., et al. 2019,
NASA Planetary Data System, doi: 10.26033/18S3-2Z54
Masci, F. J., Laher, R. R., Rusholme, B., et al. 2019,
PASP, 131, 018003, doi: 10.1088/1538-3873/aae8ac
Masiero, J. R., Grav, T., Mainzer, A. K., et al. 2014, ApJ,
791, 121, doi: 10.1088/0004-637X/791/2/121
Masiero, J. R., Mainzer, A. K., Bauer, J. M., et al. 2013,
ApJ, 770, 7, doi: 10.1088/0004-637X/770/1/7
Masiero, J. R., Nugent, C., Mainzer, A. K., et al. 2017, AJ,
154, 168, doi: 10.3847/1538-3881/aa89ec
McMillan, R. S. 2007, in IAU Symposium, Vol. 236, IAU
Symposium, ed. G. B. Valsecchi, D. Vokrouhlick´ y, &
A. Milani, 329–340, doi: 10.1017/S1743921307003407
McMurtry, C., Lee, D., Beletic, J., et al. 2013, Optical
Engineering, 52, 091804, doi: 10.1117/1.OE.52.9.091804
Melosh, J., Harris, A., Lal, B., et al. 2019, Finding
Hazardous Asteroids Using Infrared and Visible
Wavelength Telescopes (Washington, DC: The National
Academies Press), doi: 10.17226/25476
Mommert, M., Jedicke, R., & Trilling, D. E. 2018, AJ, 155,
74, doi: 10.3847/1538-3881/aaa23b
Morrison, D. 1992
NASEM. 2010, Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth-Object
Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies (Washington,
DC: The National Academies Press), doi: 10.17226/12842
—. 2022, Origins, Worlds, and Life: A Decadal Strategy for
Planetary Science and Astrobiology 2023-2032
(Washington, DC: The National Academies Press),
doi: 10.17226/26522
Nesvorn´ y, D., Jenniskens, P., Levison, H. F., et al. 2010,
ApJ, 713, 816, doi: 10.1088/0004-637X/713/2/816
Nugent, C. R., Mainzer, A., Masiero, J., et al. 2015, ApJ,
814, 117, doi: 10.1088/0004-637X/814/2/117Nugent, C. R., Mainzer, A., Bauer, J., et al. 2016, AJ, 152,
63, doi: 10.3847/0004-6256/152/3/63
OSTP. 2018, OSTP
—. 2023, OSTP
Ostro, S. J., & Giorgini, J. D. 2004, in Mitigation of
Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, ed. M. J. S. Belton,
T. H. Morgan, N. H. Samarasinha, & D. K. Yeomans , 38
Pravdo, S. H., Rabinowitz, D. L., Helin, E. F., et al. 1999,
AJ, 117, 1616, doi: 10.1086/300769
Pravec, P., Harris, A. W., Vokrouhlick´ y, D., et al. 2008,
Icarus, 197, 497, doi: 10.1016/j.icarus.2008.05.012
Rabinowitz, D., Helin, E., Lawrence, K., & Pravdo, S. 2000,
Nature, 403, 165, doi: 10.1038/35003128
Reach, W. T., Megeath, S. T., Cohen, M., et al. 2005,
PASP, 117, 978, doi: 10.1086/432670
Renne, P. R., Deino, A. L., Hilgen, F. J., et al. 2013,
Science, 339, 684
Satpathy, A., Mainzer, A., Masiero, J. R., et al. 2022, PSJ,
3, 124, doi: 10.3847/PSJ/ac66d1
Shoemaker, E. M. 1983, Annual Review of Earth and
Planetary Sciences, 11, 461,
doi: 10.1146/annurev.ea.11.050183.002333
Shoemaker, E. M., Williams, J. G., Helin, E. F., & Wolfe,
R. F. 1979, in Asteroids, ed. T. Gehrels & M. S.
Matthews, 253–282
Stokes, G., Yeomans, D., Bottke, W., et al. 2003
Stokes, G., Barbee, B., Buie, M., et al. 2017
Stokes, G. H., Evans, J. B., Viggh, H. E. M., Shelly, F. C.,
& Pearce, E. C. 2000, Icarus, 148, 21,
doi: 10.1006/icar.2000.6493
Stuart, J. S., & Binzel, R. P. 2004, Icarus, 170, 295,
doi: 10.1016/j.icarus.2004.03.018
Tonry, J. L., Denneau, L., Heinze, A. N., et al. 2018, PASP,
130, 064505, doi: 10.1088/1538-3873/aabadf
Trilling, D. E., Valdes, F., Allen, L., et al. 2017, AJ, 154,
170, doi: 10.3847/1538-3881/aa8036
Vereˇ s, P., & Chesley, S. R. 2017, AJ, 154, 12,
doi: 10.3847/1538-3881/aa73d1
Virtanen, P., Gommers, R., Oliphant, T. E., et al. 2020,
Nature Methods, 17, 261, doi: 10.1038/s41592-019-0686-2
Watanabe, S., Hirabayashi, M., Hirata, N., et al. 2019,
Science, 364, 268, doi: 10.1126/science.aav8032
Wetherill, G. W. 1987, Royal Society of London
Philosophical Transactions Series A, 323, 323,
doi: 10.1098/rsta.1987.0089
—. 1988, Icarus, 76, 1, doi: 10.1016/0019-1035(88)90138-8
Wright, E. L. 1998, ApJ, 496, 1, doi: 10.1086/305345
Wright, E. L., Mainzer, A., Masiero, J., Grav, T., & Bauer,
J. 2016, AJ, 152, 79, doi: 10.3847/0004-6256/152/4/7928
Wright, E. L., Eisenhardt, P. R. M., Mainzer, A. K., et al.
2010, AJ, 140, 1868, doi: 10.1088/0004-6256/140/6/1868
Zemcov, M., Crill, B., Ryan, M., & Staniszewski, Z. 2016,
Journal of Astronomical Instrumentation, 5, 1650007,
doi: 10.1142/S2251171716500070Zengilowski, G. R., Cabrera, M. S., McMurtry, C. W., et al.
2021, Journal of Astronomical Telescopes, Instruments,
and Systems, 7, 026002, doi: 10.1117/1.JATIS.7.2.026002
Zengilowski, G. R., McMurtry, C. W., Pipher, J. L., et al.
2022, Journal of Astronomical Telescopes, Instruments,
and Systems, 8, 016002, doi: 10.1117/1.JATIS.8.1.016002